```
cacheable: false
```

### Introduction

Now that we know about the Scanner class, we can finally write interactive programs! This week we'll mix some input with some string processing, toss in a bit of randomness, and produce a program that generates faux user names and suggested passwords for users, based on their inputs. Here you'll find the [starter code for this assignment](http://mathcs.pugetsound.edu/~tmullen/ics/hw3.zip).


### The Assignment

Your program should prompt the user for three pieces of information: Their first name, last name, and favorite word. You'll then use those pieces of information to help generate something that could be used as a unique user name, as well as three suggested passwords, each constructed using different rules. A sample interaction is shown below:

    Welcome to the username and password generator!
    Please enter your first name: Ron
    Please enter your last name: Thomas
    Please enter your favorite word: Literature

    Thanks Ron, your user name is rthomas*81

    Here are three suggested passwords for you to consider:

    Password 1: r0n53th0m@$
    Password 2: rNtSlE
    Password 3: ThomaLitRo

1. Start by downloading the Password BlueJ project. (It's a .zip archive, so you might need to unzip the project before you can open it in BlueJ.)
2. Add code that creates a Scanner instance, reading from System.in. Use the scanner to read the user's first name, last name, and favorite word, prompting them each time so that they know what to enter. (Your prompts don't have to look exactly like the ones above though — feel free to be creative.)
3. The username generated by your program should consist of the first letter from the user's first name, followed by the first seven letters from their last name, and a random integer between 0 and 99. The letters in the username should all be lower case, and you should add * characters as necessary if the last name is shorter than seven characters. (Hint: Add some extra * 's to the last name before you select the seven-character piece, whether you need them or not.) For full credit, your solution must build a single string containing all of these characters and then print it, rather than just printing each piece separately. You should also be polite and personalize the response by including the user's first name, as shown above.
4. The first password is the concatenation of the user's first and last names, in lower case, with a random integer in the range 0 – 99 between them. Some of the characters in the resulting string are then replaced by similar-looking digits and punctuation characters. For full credit, you should perform the following replacements, though you can feel free to add some more of your own: All a characters should be replaced by @, o by 0, l by 1, and s by $.
5. The second password is an "acronym", consisting of the first and last character from the user's first name, the first and last character of their last name, and the first and last letter of their favorite word. In each case, the first letter of the pair should be lower case and the second should be upper case.
6. The third password takes a random-length portion of the first name, combined with random-length portions of the favorite word and last name. In each case, those random-length pieces should start at the beginning of the string, and the code should be written such that it's possible to get the entire string if the largest possible random number is produced.
7. For full credit, your code should contain comments. There should be a comment at the top of the class containing your name and a sentence or two explaining what it's about, and one above the main method outlining what's being computed and how. Add comments above each major section of your code too — one describing how the username-creation code works, and one for each of the password approaches.

## Style Guide

For this assignment, I'm also introducing Professor Richards' style guide. These are excellent tips for writing good Java code and we should all start following them!

Before you submit your assignment, go through the checklist below and make sure your code conforms to the style guide.

* No unused variables or commented-out code is left in the class
* All instance variables are used in more than one method (if not, make them local)
* Javadoc comment above each class
* All methods have Javadoc comments
* All numbers have been replaced with constants (i.e. no "magic numbers")
* Proper capitalization of variables, methods, and classes
* Use white space to separate different sections of your code


### Extras

Looking for additional challenges? Feel free to invent some additional username or password formats and implement them in addition to the required ones. For example, instead of taking random-length portions of the inputs that always start at the beginning of the input strings, take substrings where both the starting and ending points are random. Or, make a new version of password 2 that makes the capitalization random instead of following a particular pattern. (I'm happy to provide hints about how to implement that if you're interested.) You could also ask for an additional input (e.g. the user's favorite number) and use that in interesting ways.

### Submission

Compress the full project directory for the completed assignment into a zip file and upload it to the [Moodle page for the assignment](https://moodle.pugetsound.edu/moodle/mod/assign/view.php?id=407283).
